# Running SMV Application

While an SMV application can be run using the standard "spark-submit" command,
a convenient script `smv-run` is provided to make it easy to run an application built using maven.

### Synopsis
```shell
$ _SMV_HOME_/tools/smv-run [standard spark-submit-options] [smv-options] [what-to-run]
```

**Note:**  The above command should be run from the project top level directory.

### Options
<br>
<table>

<tr>
<th colspan="3">Options</th>
</tr>

<tr>
<th>Option</th>
<th>Default</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>--master</td>
<td>local[*]</td>
<td>Specify the spark master to use (standard spark option)</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>--class</td>
<td>org.tresamigos.smv.SmvApp</td>
<td>Specify the application entry point.
The default should suffice unless the user wants to create some special initialization code and implement their own object main()</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>--jar</td>
<td>target/*jar-with-dependencies.jar</td>
<td>Specify the application fat jar.
This is the jar built using the package command using the supplied `pom.xml` example.
The default is to use the latest (by time, not version) that is found in the target directory
</tr>

<tr>
<td>--smv-props</td>
<td>None</td>
<td>allow user to specify a set of config properties on the command line.
<br>
<code>$ ... --smv-props "smv.stages=s1"</code>
<br>
See <a href="app_config.md">Application Configuration</a> for details.
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>&#8209;&#8209;smv&#8209;app&#8209;conf</td>
<td>conf/smv-app-conf.props</td>
<td>option to override default location of application level configuration file.</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>&#8209;&#8209;smv&#8209;user&#8209;conf</td>
<td>conf/smv-user-conf.props</td>
<td>option to override default location of user level configuration file.</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>--edd</td>
<td>off</td>
<td>toggle edd creation on/off.
<br>
When enabled, all persisted modules will have a corresponding EDD file that shows some standard statistical information about the result.
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>--edd-compare</td>
<td>None</td>
<td>compare the two given edd results (results of two previous --edd runs)
<br>
User must supply two edd files to compare
<br>
<code>$ ... --edd-compare /data/output/v1/foo.edd /data/output/v2/foo.edd</code>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>--graph / -g</td>
<td>off</td>
<td>Generate a dependency graph ".dot" file instead of running the given modules.<br>
graphvis must be used to convert the ".dot" file to an image or doc.  For example:<br>
<code>$ dot -Tpng com.foo.mod.dot -o graph.png</code>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>--json</td>
<td>off</td>
<td>Generate a json file of the provided modules and their dependencies.</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>--purge-old-output</td>
<td>off</td>
<td>Remove <b>ALL</b> files in output directory that are not the current version of the outputs in the app.
<b>Note:</b> This will also remove files that were not generated by this app</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>--publish version</td>
<td>off</td>
<td>publish the specified modules to the given version</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<th colspan="3">What To Run/Publish
<br>
One of the options below must be specified.
</th>
</tr>

<tr>
<th colspan="2">Option</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>

<tr>
<td colspan="2">--run-module mod1 [mod2 ...] / &#8209;m</td>
<td>Run the provided list of modules directly (even if they are not marked as SmvOutput module)
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td colspan="2">--run-stage stage1 [stage2 ...] / &#8209;s</td>
<td>Run all output modules in given stages.  The stage name can either be the base name of the stage or the FQN.
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td colspan="2">--run-app </td>
<td>Run all output modules in all configured stages in current app.
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<th colspan="3">Data Directories Config Override</th>
</tr>

<tr>
<th>Option</th>
<th>Config<br>Override</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>&#8209;&#8209;data&#8209;dir</td>
<td>smv.dataDir</td>
<td>option to override default location of top level data directory</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>&#8209;&#8209;input&#8209;dir</td>
<td>smv.inputDir</td>
<td>option to override default location of input data directory</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>&#8209;&#8209;output&#8209;dir</td>
<td>smv.outputDir</td>
<td>option to override default location of output data directory</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>&#8209;&#8209;publish&#8209;dir</td>
<td>smv.publishDir</td>
<td>option to override default location of publish directory</td>
</tr>

</table>

### Examples
Run modules `M1` and `M2` and all its dependencies.  Note the use of the module FQN.
```shell
$ _SMV_HOME_/tools/smv-run -m com.mycom.myproj.stage1.M1 com.mycom.myproj.stage1.M2
```

Run all modules in application and generate edd report for all modules that needed to run (including dependencies)
```shell
$ _SMV_HOME_/tools/smv-run --edd --run-app
```

Generate a dependency graph for module M1.
```shell
$ _SMV_HOME_/tools/smv-run -g -m com.mycom.myproj.stage1.M1
```

Clean up the output directory
```shell
$ _SMV_HOME_/tools/smv-run --purge-old-output
```

Publish the output modules in stage "s1" as version "xyz".  The modules will be output to `/tmp/publish/xyz` dir.
```shell
$ _SMV_HOME_/tools/smv-run --publish xyz --publish-dir /tmp/publish -s s1
```
